README.md, before:

# OVERVIEW

**CARPET-HOW-IT-ALL-BEGAN**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138307113-fc79a0c7-7f9c-4c87-9c7e-47fb833053b2.png)

https://rajahaseebfayyaz.github.io/Carpet-How-it-all-Began/



To provide New Generation on How Idea of Carpets came into being and revolutionized over the years.

## Author
rajahaseebfayyaz

# Project Overview


The Carpet how it all began provides the users with history of the carpets,How the use of carpets came into being and used even now after so many years.Moreover it also provides user the key elements on types of carpets and why to use carpets for soft flooring and the benefits of using the carpets and rugs.
This site also provides user to see how carpets and rugs increase the decor of the interior and how it evolved and used over time.
In the last, user can also sign up to get exclusive tricks and tips to clean the carpets,rugs or both.

https://rajahaseebfayyaz.github.io/Carpet-How-it-all-Began/

## UX


### Design Choices



### Colors
- The Colour combination used in this project represents the clarity and contrast which creates appealing sensation.
- Contrast is the most important thing regarding the choice of colours. So, it could be easy for young ones who are still learning "symbols" that are letters and words and also for older people having visual impairment.


![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138310986-54b60d21-29b6-4ca9-a808-1a194878d408.png)


### Typography
- The fonts used in Carpet-How-it-Began improves the visual presentation of the content.
- Oswald is used for headings and menus whereas Lato is used for paragraph content,Both complement nicely to each other while remaining easy to read.
- Weight for the font used is 300 as it looks sleek and professional.

https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Oswald?query=os&preview.text=CARPET-HOW-ITALL-BEGAN&preview.text_type=custom

https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato?query=LATO
### Images
- Icons in the signup page and about page demonstrates the common visual language which effectively bridges language gaps.
- images are used as evidence, for illustration, for comparison and contrast, and for analytical purposes. 
- the image on the home page represents how the carpets were sold in merkets during the ancient time  and even the same trend is following in different countries nowadays.
- The image on the about page demonstrates that carpet is making a comeback in a big and very stylish-way. 
- Collection of images in gallery explains the trend of carpeting from ancient to modern period.



## Features

### NAVIGATION

- at the top left corner ,the navigation shows the website name carpet-how-it-all-began 
- the other navigation links are to the right corner: Home, About, Gallery and Sign up which link to different sections of the same page.
- the navigation explains the user the history of the carpets and how-it-began and different sections of information easy to find.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138376114-b3c9a197-7f54-49f8-9d3d-283c869ed788.png)

##### Home Page
- the image on the home page allows the user to see how the carpets and rugs were vend in ancient time.
- this page have an eye catching animation for the user of carpet how-it-began to grab their attention.
- this home page also explains the origin of carpets.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138378715-4815ff43-8019-4459-95e1-7d20bb6a35b3.png)

#### About Page
- this page allows the user to see the benefits of using the carpets.
- this page also explains the different types of carpets, so it could be easy for user to decide which type of carpet they should consider.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138380404-005d3782-1512-4f8b-8dd5-27a14c53e7bc.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138380479-72bb1271-b41d-4f02-b878-651c7d897ea6.png)

#### Gallery
- the gallery will provide different images of revolution and use of carpets from ancient to modern period.
- this page contain images that demonstrate the beauty of carpets and rugs to improve interior decor in ancient time even today.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138381528-cf5bbb54-bac7-4d48-bf61-dc7001642ee0.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138507853-d5055976-7a8d-40dc-ac29-71d6198f25d0.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138507935-3d5c0e47-0584-4211-b5d8-16519e4f1ca0.png)


### Programing Languages
- HTML
- CSS
### Fonts
FontAwesome - for icons associated with styling inputs
Google Font's Oswald font was used for headers and menus
Google's Lato font was used as the main font
colors.co I used a colors.co's color pallet tool to help pick complementary colors.
## Testing
In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

### Validation Testing
You should try to ensure you code is valid and follows proper indentation. In this section you should write up any websites you used to validate your code. As your projects becomes more complex these tools may change.

CSS Validator Note, any error associated with root: color variables were ignored.
HTML Validator
Note any errors or warnings you are ignorning and why. IT IS BEST NOT to have ERRORS, but COLOR VARIABLES sometimes are ok to ignore if you say the IDE that has the correct linters noted no errors. Or you can take the rendered HTML and run it through the HTML validator for the Flask html templates.

Ideally you would bullet point your each of your HTML files and each ofyour CSS files and add a screenshot of the validation tool's output proving all was good.


### Automated Testing
Whenever it is feasible, automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

If you did not run automating testing. State why you chose not to. (Lacking the skill set or time is totally valid, just let the assessor know)

### Manual Testing
For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant.

You can track your test in various ways choose the one you are comfortable with and have time to do:
### Defects of Note
Some defects are more pesky than others. Highlight 3-5 of the bugs that drove you the most nuts and how you finally ended up resolving them.

### Outstanding Defects
It's ok to not resolve all the defects you found. If you know of something that isn't quite right, list it out and explain why you chose not to resolve it.

## Deployment
- The site was deployed to github pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:-
- In the Github repository, navigate to settings page.
- From the source section drops-down menu, select the Master Branch.
- Once the master branch has been selected ,the page provided the link to the completed website.

- The live link can be found here:-
https://rajahaseebfayyaz.github.io/Carpet-How-it-all-Began/

## Credits

### Content
- The content to make this site was taken from multiple channels mentioned below:-
- Wikipedia.org
- therugscafe.com
- carpet-rug.org

### Media

- The Images used in the Project are all taken from Pexels.com

### Acknowledgments
- Mentor malia havlicek has provided with helpful learning material in order to complete this project. 
- CodeInstitute's LOVE-RUNNING project has been used as a starting point,Moreover videos from loverunning project were extremely helpful in creating the project as a whole.

Commit message:

Add navigation content images and details

README.md, after:

# OVERVIEW

**CARPET-HOW-IT-ALL-BEGAN**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138307113-fc79a0c7-7f9c-4c87-9c7e-47fb833053b2.png)

https://rajahaseebfayyaz.github.io/Carpet-How-it-all-Began/



To provide New Generation on How Idea of Carpets came into being and revolutionized over the years.

## Author
rajahaseebfayyaz

# Project Overview


The Carpet how it all began provides the users with history of the carpets,How the use of carpets came into being and used even now after so many years.Moreover it also provides user the key elements on types of carpets and why to use carpets for soft flooring and the benefits of using the carpets and rugs.
This site also provides user to see how carpets and rugs increase the decor of the interior and how it evolved and used over time.
In the last, user can also sign up to get exclusive tricks and tips to clean the carpets,rugs or both.

https://rajahaseebfayyaz.github.io/Carpet-How-it-all-Began/

## UX


### Design Choices



### Colors
- The Colour combination used in this project represents the clarity and contrast which creates appealing sensation.
- Contrast is the most important thing regarding the choice of colours. So, it could be easy for young ones who are still learning "symbols" that are letters and words and also for older people having visual impairment.


![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138310986-54b60d21-29b6-4ca9-a808-1a194878d408.png)


### Typography
- The fonts used in Carpet-How-it-Began improves the visual presentation of the content.
- Oswald is used for headings and menus whereas Lato is used for paragraph content,Both complement nicely to each other while remaining easy to read.
- Weight for the font used is 300 as it looks sleek and professional.

https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Oswald?query=os&preview.text=CARPET-HOW-ITALL-BEGAN&preview.text_type=custom

https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato?query=LATO
### Images
- Icons in the signup page and about page demonstrates the common visual language which effectively bridges language gaps.
- images are used as evidence, for illustration, for comparison and contrast, and for analytical purposes. 
- the image on the home page represents how the carpets were sold in merkets during the ancient time  and even the same trend is following in different countries nowadays.
- The image on the about page demonstrates that carpet is making a comeback in a big and very stylish-way. 
- Collection of images in gallery explains the trend of carpeting from ancient to modern period.



## Features

### NAVIGATION

- at the top left corner ,the navigation shows the website name carpet-how-it-all-began 
- the other navigation links are to the right corner: Home, About, Gallery and Sign up which link to different sections of the same page.
- the navigation explains the user the history of the carpets and how-it-began and different sections of information easy to find.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138376114-b3c9a197-7f54-49f8-9d3d-283c869ed788.png)

##### Home Page
- the image on the home page allows the user to see how the carpets and rugs were vend in ancient time.
- this page have an eye catching animation for the user of carpet how-it-began to grab their attention.
- this home page also explains the origin of carpets.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138378715-4815ff43-8019-4459-95e1-7d20bb6a35b3.png)

#### About Page
- this page allows the user to see the benefits of using the carpets.
- this page also explains the different types of carpets, so it could be easy for user to decide which type of carpet they should consider.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138380404-005d3782-1512-4f8b-8dd5-27a14c53e7bc.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138380479-72bb1271-b41d-4f02-b878-651c7d897ea6.png)

#### Gallery
- the gallery will provide different images of revolution and use of carpets from ancient to modern period.
- this page contain images that demonstrate the beauty of carpets and rugs to improve interior decor in ancient time even today.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138381528-cf5bbb54-bac7-4d48-bf61-dc7001642ee0.png)

#### Sign-up Page
- the sign up page is valuable , as it provides the cleaning tips to the user.
- the user will submit its details including first and surname along with their email address. 
- after sign in , this page provides the exclusive tricks and tips for cleaning both the carpets and rugs.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138507853-d5055976-7a8d-40dc-ac29-71d6198f25d0.png)


#### Footer
- the footer provides the user with the authors details and copyright.
- it it will also provide access to the social media links including twitter, instagram and youtube.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87448281/138507935-3d5c0e47-0584-4211-b5d8-16519e4f1ca0.png)


### Programing Languages
- HTML
- CSS
### Fonts
FontAwesome - for icons associated with styling inputs
Google Font's Oswald font was used for headers and menus
Google's Lato font was used as the main font
colors.co I used a colors.co's color pallet tool to help pick complementary colors.
## Testing
In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

### Validation Testing
You should try to ensure you code is valid and follows proper indentation. In this section you should write up any websites you used to validate your code. As your projects becomes more complex these tools may change.

CSS Validator Note, any error associated with root: color variables were ignored.
HTML Validator
Note any errors or warnings you are ignorning and why. IT IS BEST NOT to have ERRORS, but COLOR VARIABLES sometimes are ok to ignore if you say the IDE that has the correct linters noted no errors. Or you can take the rendered HTML and run it through the HTML validator for the Flask html templates.

Ideally you would bullet point your each of your HTML files and each ofyour CSS files and add a screenshot of the validation tool's output proving all was good.


### Automated Testing
Whenever it is feasible, automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

If you did not run automating testing. State why you chose not to. (Lacking the skill set or time is totally valid, just let the assessor know)

### Manual Testing
For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant.

You can track your test in various ways choose the one you are comfortable with and have time to do:
### Defects of Note
Some defects are more pesky than others. Highlight 3-5 of the bugs that drove you the most nuts and how you finally ended up resolving them.

### Outstanding Defects
It's ok to not resolve all the defects you found. If you know of something that isn't quite right, list it out and explain why you chose not to resolve it.

## Deployment
- The site was deployed to github pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:-
- In the Github repository, navigate to settings page.
- From the source section drops-down menu, select the Master Branch.
- Once the master branch has been selected ,the page provided the link to the completed website.

- The live link can be found here:-
https://rajahaseebfayyaz.github.io/Carpet-How-it-all-Began/

## Credits

### Content
- The content to make this site was taken from multiple channels mentioned below:-
- Wikipedia.org
- therugscafe.com
- carpet-rug.org

### Media

- The Images used in the Project are all taken from Pexels.com

### Acknowledgments
- Mentor malia havlicek has provided with helpful learning material in order to complete this project. 
- CodeInstitute's LOVE-RUNNING project has been used as a starting point,Moreover videos from loverunning project were extremely helpful in creating the project as a whole.
